our $300 RTX 2060 ko is actually a 2080
in disguise it's a much more special
card than anybody thought including EVGA
which is the company that makes the card
we've discovered quite a few things
while working on this one and one of
those things is that the r-tx 2060 kayo
which has a different dye under the
cooler that will show you is upwards of
50% improved in some applications 26% in
blender now in gaming it's about the
same but there's something interesting
going on underneath the hood that has
significantly improved this card in
specific workloads and today we're
exploring that now technically we did
promise that right now we're this video
slot is going up we were going to review
some other 5,600 X T's for a on these
launch and the segmented it's our X 5600
XT review cycle into two separate days
and disallowed reviewers from looking at
multiple card in day one coverage
technically we could have done it anyway
but then the partners would have gotten
in trouble so all of this to say that
stupid games get stupid prizes and AMD
got the stupid prize today and instead
we're going to work on something
significantly more interesting that
popped up in between before that this
video is brought to you by Linode cloud
computing we've trusted Linode as our
web host since 2012 and recommend it for
excellent technical and customer support
reliable uptime and clean interface
aside from cloud hosting Linode comm
recently added GPU hosting plans for
machine learning and neural net use
built with our TX 6000 GPUs and 10
gigabit per second network speeds
they're also starting to deploy epic
CPUs in their servers sign up for Linode
comm cloud computing with code G at
Nexus xx for a $20 credit or click the
link in the description below to visit
linda.com slash gamers Nexus so here's
the short of it the EVGA r-tx 2060 kayo
was teased to us in about November we've
known about it for months now and we
totally blew it off just to be upfront
with everybody our reaction to EVGA was
who cares
it's another 2060 it's old news they all
perform about the same and everything I
said was correct relating to gaming
performance which is mostly what we
focus on with an RT X 2060 type card
but we never expected there to be such
an uplift in non-gaming performance and
again neither did EVGA and NVIDIA also
seems a bit caught off guard here so we
need to recap some of the basics on this
card and this video is going to create
more demand for the ko because of the
findings here but just to answer this
question straight away we asked EVGA
what's the deal with availability they
said more $300 cards meaning not the
overpriced ones will be on shelves this
week so if you care about it cool but
stick through to the end of the video
because there's definitely times you
don't want to buy this as well and we're
gonna cover both of those sides today
all right so we need to recap some the
basics the 2080 the r-tx 2080 was killed
when on video release the r-tx 27 is
super which replaced the former both
have the same die and that's the 5 45
millimeter squared tu-104 die
specifically that's going to be tu-104
dash board 10 for the r-tx 2070 super
and tu-104 - 400 for the r-tx 2080 and
we took those cards apart to show it the
chronological predecessor to the 2070
super was the 2080 hence the 10
difference the r-tx 2060 uses a smaller
die compared to the r-tx 2080 or 2070
supers 545 millimeters squared dies the
r-tx 2060 originally ships with a 4 45
millimeter squared tu 106 die that puts
it 100 millimeters squared smaller and
obviously it has a lot less hardware on
it as a result when we took apart the
r-tx 2060 ko we found that it had a 545
millimeter squared dot not the 445 die
that's on the 2060 it's label reads
tu-104
- 150 - KC that means that it's an RT X
2080 or 2070 super if you prefer that
failed validation and couldn't become a
2070 super that could be caused by
anything from a bad set of
floating-point units to bat r/t cores to
bad cache to something else but for one
reason or another it was in a pile of
parts that could either be revalidated
as something else or simply thrown out
and Vidya decided to revalidate them and
offer them to sale to board partners
this isn't too unfamiliar because we
regularly see Nvidia take bigger GPUs
and bring them down to a new SKU while
fusing off parts of it or maybe
recycling yield failures at the higher
end this is a good practice it's one
that AMD follows as well it's good
business sense but also it does reduce
waste and you get more use out of the
silicon manufactured because it's
salvages dyes that would be otherwise
lost and you can bend them down to some
lower end part when otherwise it would
be garbage so typically you might see a
twenty eighty for example become a
twenty seventy super it's more of a
rebrand there or you might see a GTX ten
eighty become a gtx 1070 TI to fill a
weird gap in the market that no one knew
they actually wanted it to be filled
what you wouldn't typically see though
is a new 1070 TI die mixed in with ten
eighty failed dyes for example and these
are random numbers I'm pulling but if
you have a 1070 TI that's fifteen
millimeters squared smaller than a ten
eighty and they're different dyes but
then you also use the ten eighty die in
there that's not normal and that's kind
of what's going on here so this is
interesting for that reason the twenty
sixty original tu 106 will persist
alongside the new tu-104 - 150 that's in
the RT x 2060 Keo
either way the 2060 ko has got the
tu-104 - 150 die in it specifically
before hitting the benchmarks an item of
note here not every RT x 2060 is going
to have the die we're looking at today
this is only going to happen on some
cards and there might be a bit of a
lottery to which cards have the new
tu-104 150 die as opposed to tu 106
and part of that's going to be based on
if the manufacturers are just buying
whatever RT x 2060s they can and
throwing them on the boards that are in
the most demand as opposed to what EVGA
is doing with its 2060 KO which is
specifically selling the 2060 KO with
that new die with the 2080 die that's
been turned into a 2060 and our
understanding is that cost is roughly
the same for the 2060 t 104 and t 106
chips to the manufacturers which means
that the difference really does just
come down to what's available at the
time and supply changes so sometimes we
what we're saying is we can't guarantee
what chip is going to be on what card
although EVGA does seem to
indicate in talking to us that the 2060
ko will have the tu-104 part but either
way what no one seems to know when we
started looking into this was that this
GPU has some very specific advantages
and we discovered a few of them tonight
so let's get into those then we'll talk
about why all this happened and what it
means for the 2060 s in a quick run of
our GN logo scene that we use receive
you benchmarking that we found that the
RT X 2060 kayo tu-104 died outclassed
the RT X 2016 original tu 106 thigh with
a render time reduction of 27% when
using CUDA
only that's a massive change for
something that's cheaper than most other
2060s
but also still technically called an RT
X 2060 it's a good change though and
unlocks performance not previously had
we have a few suspicions that might
cause this and we'll talk about more of
that later in this content as for optics
where RT hardware can be leveraged in
blender the Delta shrinks to 19%
improvement we think that this indicates
that there's an advantage specifically
in maybe FP 32 or some non RT part of
the dot but given that gaming which is
mostly floating-point doesn't show any
benefit we're still left with some holes
in the story of what's going on the RT X
2070 super finishes its renders and 24
percent less time with CUDA only and 12%
faster for optics respectively with
optics enabled the RT X 2060 ko can
achieve about 85 to 88 percent of the
performance of the 2070 super we
validated these results on two test
benches with multiple cards we also
reached out to a third party in the
industry and requested validation
assistance and it did pass validation
finally we called some people at Nvidia
and asked if they could confirm these
results just to make sure we weren't
super wrong and NVIDIA was able to
confirm that the results we saw in
blender were valid and represents its
own knowledge of what the product should
look like although some of the contacts
had only recently heard of this
advantage of the tu-104 150 dot it's
very interesting and there's much
intrigue here but we needed to see what
other advantages might exist since we
already know that gaming doesn't NAB a
benefit as for other professional
applications we ran spec view perf 13 on
a few different cards to see if the
pattern would repeat this benchmark
rapidly analyzes profession
applications like Maya 3ds max CAD
software and more and looks at the
viewer window performance typically
represented as frame rate so that you
get an idea of how quickly the card can
render the scene we then analyzed each
of the 89 test results one result per
workload per application each which has
some sub tests to try and find where it
specifically performs better what we
learned is that this isn't a fluke in
blender but a repeatable advantage of
the new tu-104 150 our TX 2060 variant
may be Nvidia forgot to turn something
off or maybe something was broken but
we're really not sure what's going on
it's too hard to fit 89 results on one
chart we tried
so we'll first look at the list of the
biggest impact items and then we'll look
at some of these smaller ones of the 89
independent tests these are the 20 that
saw an improvement greater than 10
percent versus baseline performance of
100% on the original r-tx 2060 the
biggest change was to the Tesla Tower
shaded edges test in SolidWorks in this
test the models range from 2.1 to 21
million vertices and a lot of them are
geometrically complex this test looks at
a few different types of performance
like Delta's with normal shaders bump
parallax mapping ambient occlusion
ambient occlusion with normal shaders
and environment maps and a couple of
other tests in its 13 sub tests a 48%
improvement though is ginormous we
validated this result with others and
with additional testing and it is
repeatable Korea saw a 41% improvement
in the play-in benchmark there are 14
kadia tests with sub tests but these two
specifically saw the biggest jump in
looking into it this test includes depth
of field post-processing ambient
occlusion and more shading with ground
reflections and ambient occlusion
Siemens NX and SolidWorks account for
all the results between 40% and 30%
improvement with katya and medical
simulation filling in the 20% range and
then katya and cRIO for the last results
only six tests averaged under 100%
baseline and most of those if not all
are within test variance we don't yet
have enough data it's a firmly
established error with this specific
workload but certainly the 99.9 99.7 and
99% and 98
8% results are with invariance of run to
run the 298 5 results we suspect are
with invariance as well but we're not
fully confident until further testing
with this suite everything else was
between 0 and 9 percent improved with
Maya seen 2 percent to 9 percent
improvements and creo seen the rest 3ds
max saw about a 5 percent performance
uplift in some workloads but it's not
worth making more charts for those
numbers now for gaming we showed gaming
results in our 5600 xt review before we
even really knew what the KO was we just
thought it was another 2060 and it
mostly is but to quickly recap it the
gaming results were the same
this 2060 the or the one in the other
room in the test bench the 2060 ko is
about the same as a 2060 Fe technically
the 2060 Fe is even a bit better than
the 2060 ko because it's got a power
percent offset that you can increase it
to get a higher clock then the stock
clocks the 2060 ko you're stuck at 100%
there's no Headroom for more so gaming
performance has not changed it is not a
2080 in gaming performance despite being
approaching a 2080 in some of these
other applications and for that news
we're sorry but it's important to really
make clear to everyone if you're buying
this thing for gaming which is what a
2060 is really targeted for and what
most of our viewers are probably
interested in as well at this price
class of card then don't expect any
change from basically any other 2060
baseline on the market not a meaningful
big change anyway so what does this mean
for everything well the ko
first of all does not out class
enthusiasts or OC skews so EVGA is other
offerings and offerings from other
vendors gigabyte asus whomever those if
they're if they have additional power
headroom and overclocking if they have
better PCBs and V RMS if they have
better coolers they're still going to be
a better card than the 2060 ko the 2060
ko is weak thermally it has double stack
thermal pads like 10 millimetres tall
and is absolutely insane and it's it's a
cost saving approach that worked in this
instance but it's really not a good
approach to things for for a thermal
solution it's not optimal so it's got a
cheaper cooler it
one's a bit warmer now it still runs
except ibly but it's going to be warmer
and you might need to run the fans a bit
louder to make up for it the
overclocking is more limited you can't
go past 100 percent power targets so
you're stuck with whatever you get out
of the core until you bounce off the
power limits and that's about it and for
those reasons
EB J's or other companies cards above
the ko might be better choices for
enthusiasts if you plan to basically
plug the card in and use it the 2060 ko
is a great deal for that reason but we
do need to look at the thermal
separately if there's enough interest in
it following this video if you really
wear this shines is if you're using it
for something like blender wear 20 to 26
percent time reduction and renders is
absolutely crazy for the same class of
card so if you do use blender and you're
buying in this price range you should
definitely get the KO and not some other
2060 you shouldn't buy EVGA is best 2060
you shouldn't buy the most expensive
2016 with the beefiest cooler you should
get the 2060 that has a tu-104 150 die
instead because you're going to get a
meaningful performance uplift and right
now we only know that it's on the ko it
might exist on other cards as well but
we don't know which those are yet the
2070 super is interesting too because if
you use blender and you were planning to
buy a 2070 super it might be better to
sort of split the difference and by a
couple of 2060 Kos because blender
doesn't care about envy link or SLI
it'll use them independently of each
other that doesn't benefit you at all
for game and you'll get a much worse
experience so if you split what the
machine is doing then don't do that but
if you only care about blender it'd be
an interesting experiment that we
haven't tried it's around 2 Kos against
whatever a 2070 plus your overhead for
the CPU is from the extra budget and see
how it does in speaking with V sources
we've learned that this behavior of the
2060 is the two different versions there
are now is expected to continue for
future versions of these two dies so one
of our concerns was if we publish a
video saying we're seeing these
performance improvements on our first
off the line to you on a for 150 kc die
is that going to be true in a week in a
month in six months from now
whenever it goes do it or goes EOL and
the answer was that it should not change
there's no reason that tu-104 - 150
specifically the ko what the ko uses
will go down and perform so that will
remain in the position it's in now and
it's extremely unlikely that tu 106
comes up in performance but it's more
likely that is a a non zero chance that
it comes up but it's basically zero so
you should expect both of these dyes to
remain where they are today for
performance and to not change why does
all this happen let's talk about that -
so the 2060 ko basically Nvidia had a
hole however many allotment of dyes that
were failing for validation with a
twenty eighty twenty seventy super to
salvage those they repackage them
validate them hey does this thing pass
if we fuse all this broken stuff off and
turn it into a lower-class twenty sixty
answer is yes for excise of Y original
dies and then they sell those to the
partners for allegedly roughly the same
price from what we understand and that's
all there is to it it's not supposed to
be as far as we understand any sort of
well for what we understand what we
found on this card was not expected from
anybody now I'm sure some Engineer at
Nvidia knew about this and could have
told you about it but certainly
marketing didn't necessarily plan for
this and I can with 100% confidence tell
you that EVGA had no idea this was going
on because when we were discovering some
of the performance changes here we spoke
with them and they were like can you can
you help us run some blender tests so we
can try and validate this so we were
talking about the EVGA the whole time
because
evj didn't know this was a thing it just
thought it had another 2060 with a
different dye and one of the smaller and
originally when I saw a diet in France I
was like okay cool so whatever it's a
hundred millimeter squared larger what
does that mean well it means the heat
spread over a larger area so maybe you
get an extra 12 megahertz bump and the
clocks from a slight reduction in
temperature from spreading it over a
wider area and then you throw it away
for the cooler anyway but it was much
interesting than that and that basically
had nothing to do with the story that we
ran with anyway that's why this happens
and Vidya had stuff they wanted to sell
rather than throw away and as for what's
causing this performance difference
between the two I'm honestly not sure
I've looked through the numbers and I've
looked at the types of benchmarks that
are running I've got a few guesses but
it's it would seem like this is not
related to our tea cores first of all
because the Delta with optics which uses
CUDA CUDA cores we'll call them as
Nvidia does and the RT Hardware
simultaneously to render blender images
the Delta goes down when you're
leveraging RT versus when you're CUDA
only the Delta increases by sometimes a
lot and so that would indicate maybe
something's going on in FP 32 and the
original silicon or something's going on
with I don't I'm not sure we're looking
into it I don't know that I'll ever get
an answer but we have reached out to
Nvidia and asked for comment we did get
a statement from Nvidia so Nvidia said
GeForce r-tx 2060 boards are based on
either the tu 106 or t 104 GPUs the
performance difference between the two
configurations is negligible in most
cases although tu-104 based RR TX 2060
cards that will deliver higher
performance in blender and we followed
up with them we spent about a day
working with them on validating the spec
view preferences as well and NVIDIA saw
those differences too so they're correct
they're negligible in gaming but not in
this other stuff but anyway we're not a
hundred percent sure what's causing it
what I can tell you is that the Delta is
verifiable it is repeatable we've
repeated at all multiple benches and we
worked with others including EVGA and
another third-party source and also
checked with Nvidia and all of it
checked out so the numbers are real and
I really wish I could give you a really
technical explanation of why but I can't
so my best guess is it has something to
do with the specifically with
floating-point as it's being processed
on the silicon and beyond that hey if
you work for Nvidia and you're an
engineer I know some of you watch this
channel reach out to me privately and
let's talk off record and then I can
come back and report what the hell it is
and no one will know it was you so
that's it for this one thanks for
watching everybody as always you can
subscribe for more go to store documents
exes net to help out some of our
in-depth testing like this where we do
really interesting looks sometimes that
things we didn't expect where you go to
patreon.com/scishow and exes and check
back for more 5600 xt coverage because
although AMD doesn't really deserve it
at this point for the BS that it pulled
with reviews the partners do have other
cards that are worth looking at and we
know some of you want to buy them
although the ko is quite compelling
after seeing all this it's a much
different story
after tonight thanks for watching we'll
see you all next time
[Music]